.TH PROCINFO 8 "2001-03-02" "18th Release" "Linux System Manual"

.SH NAME
procinfo \- display system status gathered from /proc

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B procinfo
[
.IR \-fsmadiDSbrChv
] [
.IR \-n N
] [
.IR \-F file
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B procinfo
gathers some system data from the
.B /proc
directory and prints it nicely formatted on the standard output
device.

The meanings of the fields are as follows:

.TP
.BI Memory:
See the man page for
.B free(1)
(preferably the proc-version of free (If you weren't around during the
Linux 1.x days, that's the only version of free you'll have)).

.TP
.BI Bootup:
The time the system was booted.

.TP
.BI Load\ average:
The average number of jobs running, followed by the number of runnable
processes and the total number of processes (if your kernel is recent
enough), followed by the PID of the last process run (idem).

.TP
.BI user:
The amount of time spent running jobs in user space.

.TP
.BI nice:
The amount of time spent running niced jobs in user space.

.TP
.BI system:
The amount of time spent running in kernel space.
.B Note:
the time spent servicing interrupts is not counted by the kernel (and
nothing that
.B procinfo
can do about it).

.TP
.BI idle:
The amount of time spent doing nothing.

.TP
.BI uptime:
The time that the system has been up. The above four should more or
less add up to this one.

.TP
.BI page\ in:
The number of disk block paged into core from disk. (A block is
almost always 1 kilobyte).

.TP
.BI page\ out:
The reverse of the above. (What does that mean, anyways?)

.TP
.BI swap\ in:
The number of memory pages paged in from swapspace.

.TP
.BI swap\ out:
The number of memory pages paged out to swapspace.

.TP
.BI context:
The total number of context switches since bootup.

.TP
.BI disk\ 1\-4:
The number of times your hard disks have been accessed. This won't work
for 1.0.x/1.1.x kernels unless you have applied the diskstat patch
available elsewhere to your kernel, and might give surprising results if
all your hard disks are of the same type (e.g. all IDE, all SCSI). [I'm
not sure to what extend this is still true with recent kernels, but I
don't have a mixed system so I can't check.]

.TP
.BI Interrupts:
This is either a single number for all IRQ channels together if your
kernel is older than version 1.0.5, or two rows of numbers for each IRQ
channel if your kernel is at version 1.0.5 or later. On Intel
architecture there are sixteen different IRQ channels, and their default
meanings are as follows:

.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.BI 0
Timer channel 0
.TP
.BI 1
Keyboard
.TP
.BI 2
Cascade for controller 2 (which controls IRQ 8\-15)
.TP
.BI 3
Serial Port 2
.TP
.BI 4
Serial Port 1
.TP
.BI 5
Parallel Port 2
.TP
.BI 6
Floppy Diskette Controller
.TP
.BI 7
Parallel Port 1
.TP
.BI 8
Real-time Clock
.TP
.BI 9
Redirected to IRQ2
.TP
.BI 10
\-\-
.TP
.BI 11
\-\-
.TP
.BI 12
\-\-
.TP
.BI 13
Math Coprocessor
.TP
.BI 14
Hard Disk Controller
.TP
.BI 15
\-\-
.RE

.RS
Note that the meanings of the IRQ channels for parallel ports, serial
ports and those left empty may have been changed depending on your
hardware setup. If that's the case on your machine, you're probably
aware of it. If you're not, upgrade to at least Linux 1.1.43 and let
.B procinfo
enlighten you about who uses what.
.RE

.TP
.BI Modules:
The modules (loadable device drivers) installed on your machine, with
their sizes in kilobytes. (Only with
.B \-m
or
.B \-a
option). Modules with a use count larger than 0 are marked with an
asterisk.

." Deleted modules are marked with a `d', uninitialized
." modules with a `u', and modules with a bad state flag with a `b'.

.TP
.BI Character\ and\ Block\ Devices:
All available devices with their major numbers. (Only with
.B \-m
or
.B \-a
option).

.TP
.BI File\ Systems:
All available file systems. (Only with
.B \-m
or
.B \-a
option). Those that do not require an actual device (like procfs
itself) are noted between square brackets.

.SH OPTIONS
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-f
Run
.B procinfo
continuously full\-screen.

.TP
.BI \-n N
Pause N second between updates. This option implies
.B \-f. It may contain a decimal point.
The default is 5 seconds. When run by root with a pause of 0 seconds,
the program will run at the highest possible priority level.

.TP
.BI \-m
Show info about modules and device drivers instead of CPU and memory stats.

.TP
.BI \-a
Show all information that
.B procinfo
knows how to find.

.TP
.BI \-d
For memory, CPU times, paging, swapping, disk, context and interrupt stats,
display values per second rather than totals. This option implies
.B \-f.

.TP
.BI \-D
Same as
.B \-d,
except that memory stats are displayed as totals.

.TP
.BI \-S
When running with
.B \-d
or
.B \-D,
always show values per second, even when
running with
.B \-n N
with
.B N
greater than one second.

.TP
.BI \-F file
Redirect output to
.B file
(usually a tty). Nice if, for example, you want to run
.B procinfo
permanently on a virtual console or on a terminal, by starting it from
.B init(8)
with a line like:

.B p8:23:respawn:/usr/bin/procinfo\ -biDn1\ -F/dev/tty8


.TP
.BI \-b
If your kernel is recent enough to display separate read and write
numbers for disk I/O, the
.B -b
flag makes
.B procinfo
display numbers of blocks rather that numbers of I/O requests (neither
of which is, alas, reliably translatable into kilobytes).

.TP
.BI \-i
Normally the IRQ portion of the display is squeezed to only display
non-zero IRQ channels. With this option you'll get the full list, but
on Alphas and on Intel boxen with 2.1.104 kernels or later
.B procinfo
won't fit inside a 80x24 screen anymore. Price of progress, I suppose.

.TP
.BI \-r
This option adds an extra line to the memory info showing 'real' free
memory, just as free(1) does.

.TP
.BI \-h
Print a brief help message.

.TP
.BI \-v
Print version info.

.SH INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
When running
.B procinfo
fullscreen, you can change its behaviour by pressing
.I n,
.I d,
.I D,
.I S,
.I i,
.I m,
.I a,
.I r
and
.I b,
which have the same effect as the corresponding command line options.
In addition you can press
.I q
which quits the program;
.I s
which switches back to the main screen after pressing
.I m
or
.I a;
.I t
which switches back to displaying totals after pressing
.I d
or
.I D;
.I <space>
which freezes the screen untill you press another key again;
.I C
and
.I R
which sets and releases a checkpoint in totals mode;
and finally
.I Ctrl-L
which refreshes the screen.

.SH FILES
.TP
.BI /proc
The proc file system.

.SH BUGS
What, me worry?

.SH SEE ALSO
free(1), uptime(1), w(1), init(8), proc(5).

.SH AUTHOR
Sander van Malssen <svm@kozmix.cistron.nl>
