.TH "IOMega JAZ/ZIP tool" "1" "1.4.0" "" "System"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
jaztool, ziptool \- Tool for IOMega JAZ and ZIP drives
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
\fBjaztool\fR <\fIoption\fR> <\fIdevice\fR>
[\fImountdir\fR]
.br 
\fBziptool\fR <\fIoption\fR> <\fIdevice\fR>
[\fImountdir\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Disk write\-protection is done by software for IOMega's JAZ
and ZIP drives. \fBjaztool\fR and \fBziptool\fR
make these features available for Linux. Before performing
any protection mode changes, it is checked that
<\fIdevice\fR> is actually a JAZ or ZIP drive
and that no partition of the inserted disk is currently
mounted.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-e\fR
Eject media.
.TP 
\fB\-p\fR
Spin down drive.
.TP 
\fB\-ro\fR
Make disk read\-only. If the current mode is protected
by a password, you will be prompted for it.
.TP 
\fB\-rp\fR
Make disk read\-only and protect with a password. The maximum
length of a password is 33 characters.
.LP 
\fBWARNING:\fR
Do not forget the password! Otherwise you will have to
reformat the disk in order to remove write\-protection.
.TP 
\fB\-rw\fR
Remove any protection from the disk. If the current mode
is protected by a password, you are prompted for it.
.TP 
\fB\-ld\fR
Lock the drive door so the disk cannot be ejected (drive
must be mounted).
.TP 
\fB\-ud\fR
Unlock the drive door
.TP 
\fB\-m\fR
Mount the <\fIdevice\fR> on [\fImountdir\fR],
then lock the door (like \-ld).
.TP 
\fB\-u\fR
Unmount the <\fIdevice\fR>.
.TP 
\fB\-s\fR
Get the current protection status, supported modes are;
unprotected, write\-protected, and password write\-protected
.TP 
\fB\-\-help\fR Print (this) help message and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-\-version\fR Print version information and exit.
.SH "BUGS"
.LP 
Changing password if the disk is password write\-protected
is currently not supported. If you want to change the
password now you first have to remove protection from the
disk or put it into the write protected mode and after that
switch it back to password write\-protected mode.
.LP 
Not all protection modes offered by the JAZ and ZIP drives
can be supported under Linux (i.e. password read and
write\-protected mode).
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Code clean up, \-p option, pedantics, bugfixes,
and typographical corrections by
.br 
Tara Milana (learfox@furry.ao.net) 09/25/2002
.LP 
Mirko Kraft (Mirko.Kraft@ixos.de)
.LP 
Modified Slightly to Support 2GB Drives, and \-m \-u \-ld
\-ud features by
.br 
Aaron Segura (aaronsegura@netscape.net) 09/25/99
.LP 
\fBziptool\fR
is based on the great work of
.br 
Grant R. Guenther (grant@torque.net) and
.br 
Itai Nahshon.
.LP 
\fBjaztool\fR
was originally written by
.br 
Bob Willmot (bwillmot@cnct.com,
http://www.cnct.com/~bwillmot).
