.TH SLOCATE 1 "January 6, 2006" 
.SH NAME
slocate \- Security Enhanced version of the GNU Locate
.SH SYNOPSIS
slocate [\-qi] [\-d <path>] [\-\-database=<path>] <search string>
.br
slocate [\-i] [\-r <regexp>] [\-\-regexp=<regexp>]
.br
slocate [\-qv] [\-o <file>] [\-\-output=<file>]
slocate [\-e <dir1,dir2,...>] [\-f <fstype1,...>] <[\-l <level>] [\-c] <[\-U <path>] [\-u]>
.br
slocate [\-Vh] [\-\-version] [\-\-help]
.br
.br
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Secure Locate provides a secure way to index and quickly search for all
files on your system regardless of ownership. It uses incremental encoding
just like GNU locate to compress its database to make searching faster, but
it will also check file permissions and ownership before displaying matched
entries so that users will not see files they do not have access to. Note
that permissions and ownership are not stored in the database.
.PP
This manual page documents
.BR slocate .
.B slocate
Enables system users to search entire filesystems without
displaying unauthorized files.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-u
Create slocate database starting at path /.
.TP
.I \-U <dir>
Create slocate database starting at path <dir>.
.TP
.I \-e <dir1,dir2,...>
Exclude directories from the slocate database.
.TP
.I \-f <fstype1,...>
Exclude files on specific file systems from the slocate database.
.TP
.I \-c
Parse '/etc/updatedb.conf' when updating the slocate database. (see 
.SM
.B CONFIGURATION FILE
below).
.TP
.I \-l <level>
Security level.
0 turns security checks off. This will make
searchs faster.
1 turns security checks on. This is the default.
.TP
.I \-i
Does a case insensitive search.
.TP
.I \-q
Quiet mode.  Error messages are suppressed.
.TP
.I \-n <num>
Limit the amount of results shown to <num>.
.TP
.I \-r <regexp>
.I \-\-regexp=<regexp>
Search the database using a basic POSIX regular
expression.
.TP
.I \-o <file>
.I \-\-output=<file>
Specfies the database to create.
.TP
.I \-d <path>
.I \-\-database=<path>
Specfies the path of databases to search in.
.TP
.I \-h
.I \-\-help
Display this help.
.TP
.I \-v
.I \-\-verbose
Verbose mode. Display files when creating database.
.TP
.I \-V
.I \-\-version
Display version.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
LOCATE_PATH 
	Colon-separated list of databases to search.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Secure Locate will parse GNU Locate's 
.I /etc/updatedb.conf
when the 
.I-c
argument is provided. But please be aware that Secure Locate currently
does NOT support all options provided by GNU Locate's configuration file.

Options currently supported by Secure Locate are
.B PRUNEFS
and
.B PRUNEPATHS
.SH VERSION
Secure Locate v3.0 beta
.SH AUTHOR
Kevin Lindsay - Copyright (c) 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006
.SH BUG REPORT
Report bugs to slocate@trakker.ca
.SH URL
http://slocate.trakker.ca/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBupdatedb\fP(1)
