.TH UPDATEDB 1 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
updatedb \- update the slocate database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B updatedb
[\-u] [\-U path] [\-e path1,path2,...] [\-f fstype1,...] [\-l [01] ] [\-q] [\-v,\-\-verbose]
[\-V, \-\-version] [\-h, \-\-help] pattern...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page
documents 
.BR slocate ,
a security-enhanced version of locate.
.BR updatedb
is simply a link to slocate that implies the -u option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-u"
Create slocate database starting at the root directory.
This is the default behavior when called as
.B updatedb.
.TP
.I "\-U \fIpath\fP"
Create slocate database starting at path \fIpath\fP.
.TP
.I "\-e \fIdirs\fP"
Exclude directories in the comma-separated list \fIdirs\fP
from the slocate database.
.TP
.I "\-f \fIfstypes\fP"
Exclude file systems in the comma-separated list \fIdirs\fP
from the slocate database.
.TP
.I "\-l <num>"
Security level.
.I \-l 0
turns security checks off, which will make searches faster. 
.I \-l 1
turns security checks on. This is the default.
.TP
.I "\-q"
Quiet mode; error messages are suppressed.
.TP
.I "\-v"
Verbose mode; display files indexed when creating database
.TP
.I "\-\-help"
Print a summary of the options to
.B slocate
and exit.
.TP
.I "\-\-version"
Print the version number of
.B slocate
and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Secure Locate's
.I updatedb
will automatically parse GNU Locate's
.I /etc/updatedb.conf.
But please be aware that Secure Locate currently
does NOT support all options provided by GNU Locate's configuration file.

Options currently supported by Secure Locate are
.B PRUNEFS
and
.B PRUNEPATHS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslocate\fP(1)
